Welcome to Slash Forward. Hey, have you
ever had an unusual itch behind the ear?
Or experienced infant allergies that eventually
just stopped one day? How about high-pitched
shrieking inside your brain, lost chunks of
time or total blackouts? It could be that,
unbeknownst to you, your body has become the
plaything for an advanced civilization that has
decided to visit Earth and explore every aspect
of our bodies with their technology. Honestly,
I can’t blame them, your body is worth exploring.
This is the scenario presented by the subject of
this video, the 2013 Blumhouse production Dark
Skies. In an attempt to forego the common tropes,
setting aside bright lights in the sky and
livestock mutilations, this film attempts
to explore a more grounded accounting of alien
contact under the assumption that any sufficiently
advanced technology would give the appearance
of being almost magical. With the only known
strategy for dealing with this being to learn
to live with their probings and interruptions,
and to put up as much as a fuss as possible in
the hope they won’t snatch one of your kids,
what would you do to protect your family from
aliens who seem capable of phasing through solid
matter? Be sure to leave a comment below, because
I’m keeping a log for my personal survival guide.
Also, if you like the video, hitting the like
button would help me out a lot. Let’s get to it.
We open on a quote questioning our
place in the universe, which is deep,
before we open on a peaceful, picturesque and
very active suburban neighborhood. Literally,
everyone is engaged in an activity of some
type or another - including our protagonists
the Barretts. Daniel’s got the meat going
while they await the arrival of their guests.
Young Jesse is called home to fulfill
his familial responsibilities,
cutting short his bro time, which appeared
to be heading toward mutual masturbation.
He heads home after sundown where his family
is gobbling down their dinner. Through casual
conversation we learn that Jesse longs to be taken
seriously and viewed as a mature young man. Then,
as they all settle in for the evening, Daniel
learns he ranks out lower than real estate on
Lacy’s totem pole, and Jesse reads spooky stories
to his brother Sammy over their walkie-talkies.
Later on, Lacy goes to placate her restless
leg syndrome with some midnight wanderings,
and she comes across evidence that makes it
appear they have been ransacked by a rabid E.T.
In the morning they find it curious
that the rambunctious critter
ate the lettuce but left the bacon, but
they otherwise brush the whole thing off.
We get some more general context as Daniel
heads off for a big interview where he,
unfortunately, brings the small dick energy,
resulting in a likely instant rejection.
Which is revealed to be hell in
regards to their financial sitch.
Stressed to the max, he chooses to play things
cool in front of the wifey, a sound strategy.
That night, we're reassured that the sliding door
is locked before mom ends storytime for the boys.
She wakes up again and goes to check the
locks, only to discover the animals have
really been popping off in terms of their creative
endeavors. After a quick check of the back door,
Sammy confides that he had a dream in
which the Sandman came to his room.
The next day, with no evidence
of forced entry, Officer Powell
suggests this would have had to have
been caused by someone with a key or
perhaps a sleep-puzzler from inside the
home. He leaves them with no intention
to investigate further and the suggestion
that they reactivate their alarm service.
Lacy has a showing later for a young
couple looking at a fixer-upper. She
makes a strong connection with the mother,
having gone through the stress of Jesse
being a sickly child. Unfortunately, this
genuine rapport removes her seller’s edge
*you can probably do better*
Wouldn’t you be the one to show them?
That night, we see the system has been
reengaged. Then, while watching TV in bed,
Daniel hints at his poor job-interviewing
performance by casually suggesting they
cut back on the cable. Unwilling to give up
her HGTV, they both get set off. This leaves
the boys to try to reassure each other
through the comfort of short wave radio.
Thankfully, the alarm does its job. But,
other than unnerving everyone, it provides
no other useful information as it declares
all sensors were tripped at the same time,
indicating a malfunction. He shares the
encouraging news, but then follows Lacy’s gaze.
The Sergeant of Incredulity returns,
and again tries to guide them toward
investigating their own kids as some
people do weird stuff in their sleep.
This message is reinforced when the
alarm guy doesn’t find anything wrong.
So they all sit down for an old-fashioned
family jam sesh, just to chat it out and try
to ascertain anyones’ motives or possible
involvement in the strange happenings.
Jesse still insists he was sleeping, but Sammy
clams up when Lacy asks about the Sandman,
because he has been sworn to
secrecy *he told me not to tell*
This leads to a parental freakout, which is
aggravated by their trust issues. Despite the
lack of photos in his room, they presume he is
having some psychological trouble. They agree to
pursue this further with a professional as Daniel
scratches at a persistent itch behind his ear.
The next day at the park Daniel finds
himself incapable of confiding in his
best bud due to a crippling fear
of being ostracized by his peers.
This is exacerbated when Sammy
goes ahead and pisses himself.
Daniel tries to help him shake it off and move on,
but Sammy’s not having it, so back off dickweed.
Then, back at home, a thematic classic - a
child’s picture containing an unnervingly
foreign character. Although,
on the grand scale of things,
this discovery absolutely pales in comparison
to the hail of birds that then bomb their house.
During clean up out back, dirty Kevin tries to
pick up one of the birds and learns
about avian flu for the first time.
While out front Mr. Barrett requests they
do their best to try to figure this out,
because his family has been really stressed out
lately, and they don’t need this adding to it.
Later on, Sammy intimates that the episode
he had at the park was caused by his psyche
phasing into another realm of
existence, which is troubling.
Again, Lacy wakes up after twilight, since no
one’s yet thought about trying to just stay up.
As she walks the hall, she hears Sammy talking
to someone and finds a slender man in his room.
The lights reveal the room to be empty, but
it doesn’t take long for them to locate him
slow streaking the yard. After they get settled
back in, they wonder about how he managed to get
out without setting off the alarm, and also
how to interpret Lacy’s visual hallucination.
Daniel, of course, handles this
with aplomb *let’s not get crazy*
Some time later we see that Jesse has been using
his mom’s realtor code to get into vacant houses.
Seems innocent enough until
Kevin shows up with the girls
and the weed. In a private moment Jesse
engages in some repartee with Shelly,
but finds his one source of experience in these
matters has failed him miserably. Nevertheless,
she takes some measure of pity on him. He rides
home as if on a cloud and as though nothing could
ever bring him down...but is soon
sobered by an ominous foreboding.
At home the Barrett’s have invested heavily
in beefing up their security measures. As
Daniel calibrates the boys try to stay calm
and wonder aloud why daddy is spying on them
in their rooms. The hard drives spin as the
night wears on with everyone sleeping soundly
in their respective beds. Daniel wakes up at his
station and begins scrubbing through the video,
but the only thing he finds is a short
period of strange interference in the
feed that seems to work its way through
all the occupied rooms and back out again.
Later on we see Lacy back on that grind, and
she’s got a fish on the hook - unfortunately
her pitch is derailed when she suffers a
sudden episode that causes her to behave
somewhat abnormally. Thankfully she wakes
up, feeling only mildly unsettled. The
dread begins to mount, however, when she
finds a nasty bruise on her forehead.
Then she gets a call from Pete asking what up
with freaking out her clients before putting
her on an involuntary furlough. Right after
this she gets a call from the department of
wildlife - there were no traces of bird flu,
and it was three different flocks of birds.
So, explanations are not forthcoming. Unsure
whether the agency has Alta Vista or not,
Lacy decides to sit down to do some of her
own research. She soon finds herself squarely
inside the rabbit hole, uncovering evidence that
suggests what’s happening to them is not unique.
But it’s not all darkness as Daniel has a
cracking interview and scores a paying gig.
This lightens the general mood and
brings some much needed relief,
which is celebrated with a
babysitter and some hardcore boning.
Lacy wakes up alone and goes looking for
Danny. She finds him outside staring at
the stars with his O-face still locked in
place. Then he leaks a bit and walks back in,
tracking blood all over before snapping out of
it. As they watch this unfold on the monitor,
Lacy decides it’s a good time to share her
news of the day. She also shares her research,
which points to a variety of governmental
and extra-terrestrial conspiracy theories.
Despite the clear similarities and the
risk of one of their children vanishing,
Daniel can’t bring himself to consult with the
wacko subject matter expert who lives downtown.
But the events of the next day promise to
force their hand as a trip to the local
pool reveals Sammy’s torso to be riddled with
mysterious bruises. Elsewhere, Jesse breaks
the cardinal rule of venturing into the woods
with a psycho and finds himself running for
cover. He emerges in a clearing where a strange
noise enters his brain and gives him the fits.
With no physical trauma that would cause
a seizure, the doctor suggests the cause
was emotional trauma. Oh, but there is some
physical trauma, in the form of a complex,
geometric branding that he found on Jesse’s skin.
While he admits that it is a bitching design, he
is also a mandatory reporter so they should expect
a visit from CPS sometime in the near future.
This is a lot to take in, but
Daniel finds a way to cope,
which involves running down and assaulting
a minor. After he messes with the bull
and gets the horns, things begin to
settle back down for a moment...and
then Sammy comes home. Fed up with all the
confusion and uncertainty, Lacy desires answers.
Daniel vows to get them and deal with it, just
like he did today *Daniel the hero* Ow, my ego.
Later that night Daniel wakes up to a familiar
disturbance and rushes to Sammy’s room,
and is relieved to find nothing - in Sammy’s
eye sockets. This one was a confirmed dream,
and Daniel returns to his monitor with a little
brown and starts reviewing the footage again.
This time he takes it frame-by-frame until,
amid the distortion, he finds a shadowy figure.
He goes to wake Lacy up to let her know
that he’s now in a believing state of mind.
The next day they meet up with Mr. Pollard for a
consultation. They discover him to have a sort of
research display aesthetic going on. Pollard
confirms his scholarly specialty is in what
he calls the Grays, and then begins a series
of qualifying questions. These questions were
designed to weed out common tropes to uncover
the true symptoms of an alien visitation.
Upon passing the test, he explains basically
that the motivations of these beings are unknown
other than they seem to be generally
curious about our biology. The result
of these studies and experiments seem to
be the ruination of their subjects’ lives.
They control you through implants that most
affected people don’t even know they have,
and that can’t be removed - see? If the testing
escalates and they begin revealing themselves,
that usually indicates they’re
ready to snatch their first contact.
Concerned for Sammy’s safety, Pollard reveals
the only real possibility of repelling them
is to just try to make the snatching
so difficult they decide to move on.
With limited options due to the already
present risk of losing their kids to CPS,
they forge ahead on their own. Daniel seeks out
some advice from the gunman while Lacy adopts
the most aggressive rescue dog she can find.
Despite bringing home a new pet and a new gun,
Jesse is upset by all these changes.
He heads off to find comfort in Shelly,
who advises that, while his dad may be a weirdo,
he ain’t crazy. In consideration of this,
Jesse returns at dusk, ready
to fight to protect the family.
That evening they cry their way through a
patriotic dinner. The mood is momentarily
saved with the sharing of fond memories, but then
ruined again by an electromagnetic disturbance.
The kids are stashed away upstairs while
Daniel waits patiently. Luckily for the aliens,
Lacy can be distracted from her post by a mere
flashing light that results in her being shut in.
Everywhere else screws start popping out of wood,
and Daniel has trouble finding his target. The
kids door starts bulging inward and gives way
to Daniel, who regroups back at the bedroom.
Despite being on high alert, it takes a moment
for the family to realize they’re surrounded and
when Daniel fires, Jesse finds he and Sammy
alone. When Sammy runs off, Jesse follows.
But his surroundings convert to the sale house
where he finds his parents in dire straits so
he continues to try to catch up with Sammy. When
he eventually finds him crouching in a hallway,
he is snapped out of his hallucination to discover
that he was the one they wanted, not Sammy.
Three months later we find the family in the city,
tracking lost children and dealing with attorneys.
Unpacking jars loose a few bits of information
for Lacy about Jesse’s infant allergies,
and she has the now pointless revelation that
first contact was made with Jesse as a baby,
not Sammy. Then Sammy hears Jesse say
his name through the walkie-talkie.
I have a soft spot for alien movies. I
remember as a kid watching Alien Autopsy,
Unsolved Mysteries and other shows like
that and lying in bed terrified afterward.
Dark Skies is a pretty good representation of
that, and I appreciate that they tried to move
away from common tropes to establish their own
mythology. However, I’m left feeling somewhat let
down by the twist on the main conflict being that
they were coming for Jesse rather than Sammy. That
just didn’t shock me or feel like a sufficient
payoff for the mounting dread. The fact that they
were coming for Jesse had no material impact on
how the ending unfolded. It would have been more
effective to do something like have Jesse split
off for a strategic reason to help protect Sammy,
and then they discover after all that effort
that the Grays weren’t actually coming for Sammy.
I also think they had a few too many
narrative threads running through the
film that they had to tie off, and could
have done more by focusing on the main
plot and deriving character development from
how the events were impacting them directly.
As an example, maybe Jesse could have
lost faith in his father, but then rebuilt
trust through the process of them dealing with
some strange or dangerous situation involving
the aliens at their home. Rather than have him
ride off for a short meeting with Shelly to tell
him that his dad’s not crazy, and then having
him ride back. It’s a relatively small thing,
but I think both of these critiques emerge
from the fact that there are so many small,
individual things that happen in this
movie, it can get a bit distracting.
But, the movie was still enjoyable and
offered up some fresh perspectives.
I did recently manage to score
a copy of Fire in the Sky,
so maybe we’ll have a strong point of comparison
sometime in the near future. I’ve heard that one
is terrifying. If you’ve seen either movie,
let me know what you thought in the comments,
and I’d love to hear about any other really
creepy alien abduction movies you’re aware of.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks to
my donors, memorialized in the hall of headshots.
I have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch. Any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of Lifeforce and Under the Skin,
with others to be added over
time. If you enjoyed the video,
I’d love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing. Thanks for watching.